**SUMMARY**

* Full time agile **Java EE (J2EE)** developer with more than 7 years of experience in Java EE  
* Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 6 Programmer  
* Writes clean code. Maintainable. Scalable.  
* 5 years of agile practices (TDD, Build Management, Pair Programming, Scrum, Retrospective)  
* 7 years using Spring Framework (IoC, AOP, MVC, Transaction Management)  
* 7 years using Hibernate (Plain, JPA 2, Envers, annotation and xml based configurations)  
* 5 years of using Maven  
* Uses different SCM’s (Git, CVS, SVN).  
* Applies design patterns to ensure code maintainability (GoF SOLID).  
* Formally trained on Java Oracle courses SL-110-SE5, SL-275-SE5 and FJ-310-EE5  
* Comfortable on straightforward (Servlet API, JDBC) and established frameworks (Spring, Struts, JPA, Hibernate) for web and db-layer development.  
* Able to perform functional/technical problem solving with minimal supervision.  
* Making sure you go to a scalable and sustainable direction   
* Tries out other technologies (outside work) such as Angular JS, Node, Docker, R, and Android

**PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE**

| Rakuten Asia, [https://global.rakuten.com/en/](https://global.rakuten.com/en/), Raffles Place, Singapore Applications Engineer | May 2013– Present |
| :---- | :---- |

**Achievements**

* Introduced and implemented Agile Practices (XP, Scrum, CI), more stable now.  
* Team leading expansion in India Development Center.  
* Do solutioning from business requirements both non-technical and technical. Constant alignment with PO/QA/Engineers  
* Increase teams productivity by holding knowledge sharing (Git/TDD/Planning Poker/Others) sessions..  
* Introduced concept of writing clean code by componentization. Now everyone knows what is “Componentization” including Product manager and owners

**Technologies Used:** Java EE 7, Agile, XP, Tech Leading, Restful web services, SOAP services, Payment API integrations, Setting technical direction, Story Writing, Acceptance Criteria, JPA, Spring Batch, Spring Framework (Batch, JPA, Transaction Management, Scheduling) Hadoop, Hive, Unix 

| NCS, [www.ncs.com.sg](http://www.ncs.com.sg/), Ang Mo Kio, Singapore Application Consultant | Mar 2011 – April 2013 |
| :---- | :---- |

***Standard Chartered Bank [http://www.standardchartered.com**](http://www.standardchartered.com/en/)* [**» Straight2Bank](http://www.standardchartered.com/en/)** [allows corporate users to authorize cash and trade transactions](http://www.standardchartered.com/en/)  
**Achievements**

* Implemented Authorization of cash/trade for used in mobile  
  * [https://itunes.apple.com/sg/app/straight2bank/id374852806?mt=](https://itunes.apple.com/sg/app/straight2bank/id374852806?mt=8)  
  * [https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.scb\&hl=en](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.scb&hl=en)

***John Wiley & Sons*** [**www.wiley.com](http://www.wiley.com) » Mobile Content Service** provides access to Wiley Online Library contents in a mobile device with access control.  
**Achievements**

* Implementing web service to monitor usage traffic, reports generated are COUNTER ([www.projectcounter.org](http://www.projectcounter.org)) compliant.  
* In development.

***John Wiley & Sons*** **» Online Library [onlinelibrary.wiley.com](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com)** contains different books, journals, and databases hosted by Wiley and is available publicly onlinelibrary.wiley.com   
**Achievements**

* Added Google Analytics / Adobe Sitecatalyst web analytics on Online Library pages. This allows business to see which Journals has best traffic  
* Supported specialised pages for American Geophysical Union (AGU) specific Journals and its contents.  
* Created Customer Access Report which shows contents owned by the customer and sent via email.  
* Added functionality in Orchestration Engine to cater use-cas.  
* Deployed to production

***John Wiley & Sons*** **» Admin Tools** is used to help the production support crew to confirm issues reported by customers, this is available only within internal network.  
**Achievements**

* Added support to allow modification of Customer Details (Add Librarian, Identify by IP, Regional Provision, etc.)  
* Maintenance of other Admin Tools related issues.  
* Added support for ability to recover on deleting an article from multiple sources (File System, XML DB, RDBMS) when a problem occurs.  
* Deployed to Production.

**Technologies Used: Technologies Used:** Java EE 6, XQuery, Marklogic, XPath, Hibernate, Restful Web services, Agile Development, TDD, Pair Programming, Scrum, Planning Poker 

| St. Luke’s Medical Center, [www.stluke.com.ph](http://www.stluke.com.ph), Global City, Philippines Junior Programmer | May 2009 – Feb 2011 |
| :---- | :---- |

**MD Portal –** Allows Doctor’s to see their patients along with history and what had been performed on that patient including results.	  
**Achievements**

* Created functionality to view patient’s history, along with different use cases.  
* Created module to allow a doctor share their patients along with the drugs given, procedures and tests to residents/hospitalists/fellows, secretary**.**  
* Created functionality to view comments and allow the super administrator to control which comments can be seen by administrators.  
* Added Facebook-like searching for patients and twitter-like show more feature.  
* Recoded/redesigned parts of the project. Encouraging use of tabs/accordions, existing paging libraries, Criteria queries and different decorators for pages.  
* Ensured that the application is working in multiple browsers and different devices such as Apple iPad and Samsung Galaxy Tab.

**Technologies Used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 6, , Spring 3.0.x MVC/IoC,  Spring Security 2.0.5, Hibernate, EhCache,Maven 2, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript/JSON, Fancybox, Sitemesh, JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, iReport/JasperReports, Log4J, Junit 4.5, Spring definitions and Hibernate mappings are Annotation-based and Criteria API is used over HQL, Jetty, Redmine, Oracle, MySQL, SVN, SQL Developer, Eclipse Ganymede, Firefox, IE, Safari, Chrome, Windows XP, Linux (Ubuntu 10.x)

**HCR –** **Healthcare Report System** provides reports for making management decisions  
**Achievements**

* Leaded the development of the HCR API, to let other developers to focus on the business rules and interact only with the Report queries.  
* Refactored the freshly created HCR. This includes, changing of the Project structure, and changes in the implementation for ease of adding a new report.   
* Upgraded project from Spring 2 to Spring 3  
* Introduced JavaFX  to the company portfolio and created modules for RIA Applications  
* Responsible for Open HCR API to be available via web services.  
* Created  Security module for Authentication/Authorization  
* Created the JMS Server for the Healthcare Reports which prints the selected report directly to the printer.   
* Feature to export in Excel, CSV, and HTML.  
* Created module to allow report queuing to execute with the specifiedCRON Job.  
* Created module to mail the created report directly to the user account after generation on the scheduled Job.  
* Created Gross Revenue Reports, critical to decision-making reports for management.  
* Deployed to Production.

**Technologies used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 6, , Spring 2.5.x and 3.0.x MVC/IoC,  JAX-RS(JSR-311), CXF, Spring Security  2.0.5, JMS, ActiveMQ,  JavaMail(Spring), JDBC/Hibernate, Maven 2, jQuery, JavaScript/JSON, JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, iReport/JasperReports, Log4J, Quartz, Jetty, Redmine, Junit 4.5, Spring definitions are XML Based while Hibernate Mappings are Annotation Based and Criteria API is used over HQL, Oracle, MySQL, SVN, SQL Developer, Eclipse Ganymede, Firefox, Windows XP.

**Healthcare System –** Provides services from admission, ordering up to billng and accounting.  
**Achievements**

* Created modules for maintaining the reference data’s, which is referred to as “File Maintenance”. This includes diagnosis, business partners, credit card, and doctors.  
* Created API for sequencing on the File Maintenance Modules  
* Created AJAX validations to check if a reference data already exists.

**Technologies Used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 6, Spring 2.5 MVC/IoC, Spring 2.5 AOP, Spring Security 2.x, Hibernate 3.2.x, Maven 2, log4J, Junit 4.4, DBUnit, Mockito, JasperReports, EhCache, HQL, Spring bean definitions are XML-based while Hibernate Mappings are Annotation-based, Javascript, JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, Jetty, SVN, MySQL, Oracle, Eclipse Ganymede, Firefox, Windows XP.

**ARMS – Ancillary Results Management System** provides results for ancillary services (ie. CBC, Urinalysis, etc.)  
**Achievements**

* Created Reports for ECG, Heart Center, Neruophysiological unit, Newborn Screening, Heart Institute, Nuclear Medicine, Breast Care Center, Cellular Immunology results.

**Technologies Used**: Java EE 5, Java SE 6, Spring 2.5 MVC/IoC, Spring 2.5 AOP, Spring Security 2.x, Hibernate 3.2.x, Maven 2, log4J, Junit 4.4, DBUnit, Mockito, JasperReports, EhCache, HQL, Spring bean definitions are XML-based while Hibernate Mappings are Annotation-based, Jetty, SVN, Javascript, JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, MySQL, Oracle, Eclipse Ganymede, Firefox, Windows XP.

**ARMS (Middleware) –** responsible for receiving data from machine and passing it to ARMS.  
**Achievements**

* Designed and created the middleware conformed to OMG (Object Management Group) and HL7 standards from ground-up.  
* Converts the data received from the machine to HL7 Format which is the standard for healthcare oriented computer systems.  
* Created automated email when a problem arises in middleware.  
* Deployed to Production.

**Technologies Used:** Java SE 6, JMS, HL7, HAPI, ActiveMQ, JavaMail, Maven 2, Junit 4.5, SVN, Redmine, SQL Developer, Eclipse Ganymede, Mirth, Eclipse Ganymede, Windows XP.

**Junitor^ –** An online log monitoring system for time-in/time-out reference. Displays results via a report including where the user logged. The primary drive this is created is due to the frequent problems encountered with the biometrics on the newly opened hospital in Global City.  
**Achievements**

* Leaded, designed and created the system from ground up.  
* Created the basic monitoring system including overtime/tardiness computations.  
* Created speech synthesizer to greet the logging employee welcome and goodbye.  
* Deployed to Production

**Technologies Used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 6, Appfuse, Spring 2.5 MVC/IoC, Hibernate, Log4J, Maven 2, Mbrola,  
MySQL, Junit 4.5 , SVN, Spring bean definitions are XML-based while Hibernate mappings are annotation-based and Criteria API is used over HQL, JasperReport , Jetty, Javascript, JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, SQL Developer, Eclipse Ganymede, Firefox, Windows XP.

**GFMS – Generic File Maintenance System** provides maintenance of “reference” data generically referred to as a file.  
**Achievements**

* Leaded, Designed and created a multi-module maven project from ground up.  
* Created core and an admin module that will create everything for the file maintenance module. This includes the UI, down to the persistence layer (CRUD) and required very minimal interaction with the code.  
* Initial module added was for the File maintenance of healthcare modules.  
* Deployed to production environment. Later placed inside *Healthcare System*.

**Technologies used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 5, Spring 3.0 MVC/IoC, Spring 2.5 AOP for logging, Maven 2, SLF4j bridge to Log4j, leveraging on Java reflections, Hibernate 3.2.x,  Junit  4.5, DisplayTag, Spring bean definitions   
and Hibernate Mappings are annotation-based and Criteria API is used over HQL, Javascript, SVN, Jetty, JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, MySQL, Oracle, Eclipse Ganymede, Redmine, Firefox, Windows XP.

**COL – Chain of Love** is a pet project which is used to register people for a new organization called ‘Kadena De Amor’; the goal is to provide other developers a reference implementation for the project.  
**Achievements**

* Designed and created project from the ground up.  
* Created module for basic Registration (CRUD).  
* Provided other developers a real-world open source reference project that implements Spring and Hibernate.  
* Deployed to development environment.

**Technologies Used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 5, Spring 3.0 MVC/IoC, Hibernate 3.2.x, Maven 2, SLF4j bridge to Log4j,SVN, Spring bean definitions and Hibernate Mappings are annotation-based and Criteria API is used over HQL, Jetty, JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, MySQL, Eclipse Ganymede, Firefox, Windows XP.

**SAP Interface** **–** Interfaces Healthcare data to SAP module.  
**Achievements**

* Enhanced the hospital’s Daily Income Interface to separate local and foreign incomes.  
* Deployed to Production

**Technologies Used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 6, Spring 2.5 MVC/IoC, Hibernate, Log4J, Spring Security 2.0, Maven 2, Junit 4.5, SVN, Spring bean definitions are XML-based while Hibernate mappings are Annotation-based  and Criteria API is used over HQL, JasperReport , JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, Tomcat, Jetty, Redmine, SQL Developer, Eclipse Ganymede, Firefox, Windows XP**.**

| ProV International, [www.provintl.com](http://www.provintl.com), Makati City, Philippines Java Developer |  Jan 2008 – Apr 2009  |
| :---- | :---- |

***St. Luke’s Medical Center*** **» Healthcare System** is the former system to replace the legacy Healthcare System.  
**Achievements**

* Appointed as one of the 5 tech leads for modularizing the Legacy Project.  
* Provided core processes/frameworks in order to abstract redundant details to the developers and promote code-reuse.  
* Proposed and taken action to introduce better technologies (SCM, Unit Testing) for the project, of course going through the process.  
* Deployed to Production. Later replaced by the new Healthcare (*see Healthcare System under St. Luke’s Medical Center*)

**Technologies Used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 5, Spring Security 2.x, EJB 3, JPA 1.x, Ajax, IceFaces/JSF, JSP, Glassfish V2, JasperReport, iReport, jUnit, HtmlUnit/JWebUnit/JSFUnit, VSS, SVN, SQL Developer, TOAD, FreeMind, OpenProj, , NetBeans IDE and Firefox, Windows XP.

***ABS-CBN Broadcast Center*** **[www.abs-cbn.com](http://www.abs-cbn.com) » Integrated Payroll System** prevents payroll errors and provides ensures employees are paid accurately.  
**Achievements**

* Created Take Home Pay module, Reference Data Maintenance.  
* Maintenance of Last Pay module.  
* Innovated by introducing new technologies to the company such as Jasper over iText for reports.  
* Materialized to Production.

**Technologies used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 5, Struts 1, Servlet, Custom Tag Libraries, Lots of Javascript, AJAX Oracle, JDBC, iText, JasperReport, iReport, JSP/XHTML, JSTL, EL, CVS, Tomcat, Eclipse Europa, Toad, and Sql Developer, IE, Windows XP.

**ProV International » Inventory Control Management System** monitors current stock of office supplies and forecast stocks needed for upcoming month(s), year(s).  
**Achievements**

* First real-world application created.  
* Leaded the project with 4 members.  
* Performed SDLC cycle and created the project from ground-up.  
* Created forecasting module which forecast s expenses for upcoming month(s) and/or year(s).  
* Not materialized to Production.

**Technologies Used:** Java EE 5, Java SE 5, Spring 2.0 MVC/IoC/JDBC, IBM DB2, JSP, JSTL, EL, Javascript, CSS, FusionCharts, CVS, Tomcat, Aqua, Data Studio, Eclipse Europa, IE, Windows XP.

**TRAININGS/SEMINARS**  
**Achievements:**

* One of the top 5 out of 50 java bootcampers for 2008\.  
* Intensive 12 hour/day training.

| Sun Tech Days, Shangri-la Makati, Philippines  | Jun 2008 |
| :---- | ----: |
| Sun Courses: SL-110-SE5, SL-275-SE5, FJ-310-EE5, ProV International, Philippines | Jan – Mar 2008 |
| Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 6 Programmer, New Horizons, Singapore | Mar 2012 |

**EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND**

| Computer Science, Bachelor of Science  Informatics International College, [www.informatics.edu.ph](http://www.informatics.edu.ph), Eastwood, Quezon City, Philippines Excelled in programming subjects such as C, C++, Java, SQL | Mar 2004 – May 2007 |
| :---- | :---- |

